Deploying with Git
==================

Background
----------

Git is a powerful decentralized revision control system, and is the primary
means for deploying apps to Heroku. You don't need to be proficient with Git to
use it for deploying code to Heroku, but you may find it valuable to learn the
basics of this excellent tool for managing source code.  Some resources for
learning Git:

 * [GitCasts](http://www.gitcasts.com/) publishes a large number of introductory
   and advanced git related screencasts.
 * [Git on Rails](http://railscasts.com/episodes/96) shows common conventions
   for using Git to track Rails apps.
 * Git cheat sheets for [web](http://cheat.errtheblog.com/s/git) and
   [print](http://ktown.kde.org/~zrusin/git/git-cheat-sheet-medium.png)
	consumption.
 * [Git - SVN Crash Course](http://git.or.cz/course/svn.html)

Tracking your app in Git
------------------------

*You can skip this section if you already have a local git clone for your app
or are familiar with git.*

Before you can push an app to Heroku, you'll need to initialize a local Git repo
and commit your files to it.  For example, to create a new Rails app and create
a Git repo for it:

    :::term
    $ rails myapp
          create  
          create  app/controllers
          create  app/helpers
          create  app/models
    ...
    
    $ cd myapp
    $ git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in .git/
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "my first commit"
    Created initial commit 5df2d09: my first commit
     44 files changed, 8393 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
     create mode 100644 README
     create mode 100644 Rakefile
     create mode 100644 app/controllers/application.rb
    ...

This is a local repository, now residing inside the `.git` directory.  Nothing has
been sent anywhere yet, you'll need to create a remote and do a push to deploy
your code to Heroku.

NOTE: Heroku apps expect the Rails directory structure at the root of the repository.  If your app is inside a subdirectory in your repository, it won't run when pushed to Heroku.

Deploying code
--------------

Your Heroku app's repository starts blank by default - it has no branches and no
code. So the first time you deploy, you'll need to specify a remote branch to
push to:

    :::term
    $ git push heroku master
    updating 'refs/heads/master'
    ...

Branches pushed to Heroku other than `master` will be ignored.  If you're
working out of another branch locally, you can either merge to master before
pushing, or specify that you want to push your local branch to a remote master.
To push a branch other than master, use this syntax:

    :::term
	 $ git push heroku yourbranch:master

How Heroku uses Git remotes
---------------------------

Git remotes are references to remote repositories.  You can have any number of
these, but for now we'll focus on just the remote to Heroku.

You can take an existing Git repo and add a remote using the git url provided
when you created your app.

NOTE: If you don't have the git url for your app on-screen anymore, you can
always see it again by typing: <code>heroku info --app <appname></code>.

The git url for a Heroku app is always in the format
`git@heroku.com:appname.git`. Once you get used to this format, you may find it
easier to type than cut-and-paste each time.

    :::term
    $ git remote add heroku git@heroku.com:appname.git

We've named the remote "heroku" in this example, but you can name the remote
anything you want.  You will probably find it easier to follow the examples if
you stick to this naming convention.

There is one special remote name: "origin", which is the default for pushes.
Using origin as the remote name will allow you to type just `git push` instead
of `git push heroku`, but we recommend using an explicitly named remote.

Using Subversion or other revision control systems
--------------------------------------------------

What if you're already using Subversion or another revision control system to
track your source code? Although we believe that Git is one of the best choices
available for revision control, you don't need to stop using your current
revision control system. Git can be purely a deployment mechanism, existing
side-by-side with your other tool.

For example, if you are using Subversion, init your Git repo as described above,
but with the additional step of creating a `.gitignore` prior to adding your
files, telling it to ignore the Subversion directories.

    :::term
    $ git init
    $ echo .svn > .gitignore
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "using git for heroku deployment"

Now tell Subversion to ignore Git:

    :::term
    $ svn propset svn:ignore .git .
    property 'svn:ignore' set on '.'
    $ svn commit -m "ignoring git folder (git is used for heroku deployment)"

Each time you wish to deploy to Heroku:

    :::term
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "commit for deploy to heroku"
    ...

    $ git push -f heroku

NOTE: The `-f` (force flag) is recommended in order to avoid conflicts with other developers' pushes. Since you are not using Git for your revision control, but as a transport only, using the force flag is a reasonable practice.
